README.md, before:

# Sprung

[Springpad.com](http://springpad.com/) (like too many other "cloud"
apps I've used) has shut down. Thankfully, Springpad made
exports available to users as a simple HTML/JS/CSS viewer application
and JSON data. They even went so far as to provide (an example export
and explain their data types](https://github.com/springpartners/springpad-export)!

Sadly, even with the export and info, it's nearly like being handed a
print out. Our "modern" filesystems give us little in the way of data
*knowledge* and even less in the way of curation, aggregation, annotation,
and organization.

However! [Apache CouchDB](http://couchdb.apache.org/) is "built of the
Web" and is therefore quite conscious of such needs.

## Meet Sprung!

![Screenshot of Sprung](./screenshot.png)

## Installation

**Note:** I fully intend to make this all much easier. "Geeks" only atm.
Sorry. :frowning:

1. Copy `config.json.sample` to `config.json`
2. Update the URL to match your settings.
3. `npm install` will install the necessary dev tools and dependencies.
4. `gulp` to build Sprung and the type definitions and publish them to the URL you set in the `config.json` file.

Once that's done, visit the URL based on your CouchDB URL, such as:
`http://localhost:5984/sprung/_design/sprung/index.html`

## oEmbed

Currently, Sprung uses oEmbed data for videos provided by
[oembedapi.com](http://oembedapi.com/). You should update the
`_docs/type~springpad-video/index.js` file to set the `origin` query paramater
properly or to use an alternate oEmbed retrieval API such as
[iframe.ly](http://iframe.ly/).

## File Uploads

There's very basic upload support (via [filepicker.io](http://filepicker.io))
in use in the Video type. However, the plan is to change that
(possibly to [FileAPI](http://mailru.github.io/FileAPI/)) for
offline usage--which is pretty much mandatory for an app like
this...or any other app you don't want to be as flighty as your
network connection...or terms of service...or hosting companies
flights of fancy...

## Future

Springpad.com (may it rest in peace) was very close to a
note-taking-app-supreme idea that I've had for some time.

It's demise finally tipped the scales in favor of action. :smiley_cat:

## License

[Apache License 2.0](http://apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Commit message:

Split out UI friendly config settings
To avoid sending DB credentials to the UI... >_<

README.md, after:

# Sprung

[Springpad.com](http://springpad.com/) (like too many other "cloud"
apps I've used) has shut down. Thankfully, Springpad made
exports available to users as a simple HTML/JS/CSS viewer application
and JSON data. They even went so far as to provide (an example export
and explain their data types](https://github.com/springpartners/springpad-export)!

Sadly, even with the export and info, it's nearly like being handed a
print out. Our "modern" filesystems give us little in the way of data
*knowledge* and even less in the way of curation, aggregation, annotation,
and organization.

However! [Apache CouchDB](http://couchdb.apache.org/) is "built of the
Web" and is therefore quite conscious of such needs.

## Meet Sprung!

![Screenshot of Sprung](./screenshot.png)

## Installation

**Note:** I fully intend to make this all much easier. "Geeks" only atm.
Sorry. :frowning:

1. Copy `config.json.sample` to `config.json`
2. Update the URL to match your settings.
3. Copy `config_ui.json.sample` to `config_ui.json`
4. Update the API key(s) to match your settings.
5. `npm install` will install the necessary dev tools and dependencies.
6. `gulp` to build Sprung and the type definitions and publish them to the URL you set in the `config.json` file.

Once that's done, visit the URL based on your CouchDB URL, such as:
`http://localhost:5984/sprung/_design/sprung/index.html`

## oEmbed

Currently, Sprung uses oEmbed data for videos provided by
[oembedapi.com](http://oembedapi.com/). You should update the
`_docs/type~springpad-video/index.js` file to set the `origin` query paramater
properly or to use an alternate oEmbed retrieval API such as
[iframe.ly](http://iframe.ly/).

## File Uploads

There's very basic upload support (via [filepicker.io](http://filepicker.io))
in use in the Video type. However, the plan is to change that
(possibly to [FileAPI](http://mailru.github.io/FileAPI/)) for
offline usage--which is pretty much mandatory for an app like
this...or any other app you don't want to be as flighty as your
network connection...or terms of service...or hosting companies
flights of fancy...

## Future

Springpad.com (may it rest in peace) was very close to a
note-taking-app-supreme idea that I've had for some time.

It's demise finally tipped the scales in favor of action. :smiley_cat:

## License

[Apache License 2.0](http://apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
